What is puppet? 
  Provisioning and configuration of machines. 
  Makes machine configurations reproducable, trackable. Machines ideally are completely configurated by puppet, except database uploads and replication.
  Changes are committed to repository, allows rollback, identifies who made the changes, people can re-use the code others spent time on, people can learn and watch from other people's changes.

What is hiera?
  Used to separate private data from puppet.
  public data e.g. password='example' goes into puppet
  private data e.g. password='wree3nr5342111' goes into hiera.
  Allows overrides per environment, public/example data for local or testlab usage.
  There is an mini-example hiera setup in puppet repo, and there is a production / tng hierarchy in a seperate repo named hiera. A little confusing at the beginning, maybe.


What is Virtuallbox? 
  Simply, it is virtualisation software. Mostly known for it's GUI, does have a command line interface 'VBoxManage', but the commands are tedious.
  Clicking is also tedious when done enough times, Clicking is error prone. In general we want to remove things that are error prone, and time consuming. Manual VM creation may take 5 mins. 

What is Vagrant?
  Command line interface to control, configure and manage Virtualbox, and much more 'providers' ... VMware, openstack, AWS, libvirt, qemu,
  There is a text file, which vagrant uses to define a virtual machine with the specifications we want, it's called "Vagrantfile"
  Vagrant creates vm in 20-30 seconds instead of 5 minutes, and exactly the same way each time.
  Changes are in text format, memory size, disk size, forwarded ports, shared directories from host to vm. Changes are comittable.

Requirements for Vagrant
  OSX, Linux, Windows ( Pre warning, watch out for line feed issues for git checkouts in Windows )
  Virtualbox installed.
  Vagrant installed.
  Ciao/Leguide puppet repo checkout.


Demonstration time:

How to interact Puppet, hiera, vagrant, Virtualbox? 
  vagrant status             # show any existing virtual machines owned by vagrant
  vagrant up centos7         # create virtual machine from Vagrantfile with name centos7
  vagrant provision centos7  # run provisioning software (puppet) on vm. Provisioning command is specified in Vagrant file and hiera
  vagrant ssh centos7        # ssh into the vm, can be helpful for troubleshooting.
  vagrant destroy centos7    # kill the vm. 

Change/Create puppet manifests
  Make changes to manifest
  Apply the new manifest using hiera to virtual machine
  vagrant up 
  make changes
  vagrant provision to test
  continue changes/provisionings to manifest and vm until all is green.
  vagrant destroy vm, vagrant up vm, until everything runs smoothly, without error.
  commit


Mcollective
  MCollective is a framework to build server orchestration or parallel job execution systems. Primarily we’ll use it as a means of programmatic execution of Systems Administration actions on clusters of servers. 
